# Welcome to iSongs-RadioText!
This repository contains a project whose intial idea goes back to 2014. It is
an extraction from a project that I started 2013 for learning purposes. This
repository contains the reimplemented version from 2019, when I completely
rewrote it. The main changements were to add some Java best practices and some
multi-threading. Also, I updated it to use the newest JRE of that time, so in
order to compile the project or run the release, Java in version 9 or higher is
needed.

## Idea
The initial idea was to create an application which parsed the broadcasted
radio text and displayed the latest information about the name of the currently
broadcasted song. Back in 2014, the radio text was broadcasted via the webradio
of iTunes.

As the radio text of the station I was listening to became stuck sometimes, I
had to find an alternative way to get the newest information of the currently
broadcasted song. As I found out, the webplayer of that station still showed
the correct informations, so I read the source code of it and found a JSON file
which always contained the current informations.

As the radio station later stopped broadcasting their radio text on the
internet, the JSON file from the webplayer was the only way to get the
informations of the currently broadcasted song.

The application should also be capable to save the title informations to a
file, if the user wants to.

## Graphical user interface
<p><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mhahnFr/iSongs-RadioText/master/screenshots/main_gui.png" alt=""/></p>

The GUI of the application is kept quite simple: There is a single window
containing two text labels showing the name and the interpreter of the currently
broadcasted song, underneath them one can find a button to write the
informations of the song to a file. The title bar of the window serves as
status label. Also there is a window which displays the settings of the
application and allows the user to edit them.

## Approach
When invoked, the main function creates a new object of the ViewController
class (iSongsRDS) in the AWT-EventQueue thread. This class is a subclass of
JFrame and it implements the ActionListener interface. The constructor creates
a new application window and positions it at the same position and with the
same size as the last time. There is a window listener, which saves the current
window settings when the window is closed. Once everything is settled up, a
timer is started, which triggers the system to check wether a (new) song is
broadcasted. In order to get the currently broadcasted radio text from iTunes,
I wrote a small AppleScript which simply returned to contents of the appopriate
variable of iTunes. If the script returns the currently broadcasted radio text,
an parser object scans for the specific pattern in that string to see
wether it contains song informations. If there is no content in that variable
or if it is indicating that iTunes has no such variable (at the moment), the
system to check the JSON file from the webplayer is activated. It parses the
JSON file, which simply includes some HTML pieces which are containing the song
informations. If the detected song differs from the one that is currently
displayed, it will be shown in the application window. In order to not block
the GUI thread, those tasks are running in a seperate thread.

### The save title button
If the user clicks on the button to save the currently shown title, the current
song informations are saved temporary and a file containing these informations
is written into the indicated directory. This task also runs in its own thread.
The writing status is displayed in the title bar of the application window.
This task is however run on the AWT-EventQueue.

### The script
The script to get the song informations can be saved anywhere, or it can be
missing at all.

### The multi-threading
To make the execution of this application run more smoothly, I used the
ScheduledExecutorService. It is initialized with two threads. All task are
added to the queue of that service, so they can be runned concurrently. As
there are at most two tasks running parallel, I decided to use only two threads
of that service. All GUI tasks are passed to the AWT-EventQueue to respect the
Java threading guidelines.

The benefits of the multithreading in this application are to be able to write
song informations to a file, meanwhile refresh the title informations
without loosing the optionally written out informations and to keep the GUI
reactive while using it to display the progress of the writing.

### The settings
<p><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mhahnFr/iSongs-RadioText/master/screenshots/settings.png" alt=""/></p>

All relevant variables can be changed in the settings window.
 - The URL to the JSON file can be adjusted,
 - wether it should be checked,
 - where to write the files containing the song informations,
 - the delay to wait between checking for the currently broadcasted song.
 - Finally, there is a button to reset all settings.

Those varaibles are not the only ones to be saved, the position and the width
of the application window are also saved.

### The parsing
The song information in the radio text is exspected to be in the following
format: ``<title name> / <interpreter name>``. More explicitly, the parser
checks wether a slash preceeded and followed by a space is present. If that is
the case, the last occurance of such is used to determine the name of the song
and its interpreter.

I did not include a JSON parsing library nor wrote it myself, as the JSON file
is only containing a few HTML pieces, which I also do not parse in a
traditional way. All I did is to hardcode the pattern, where to find the song
informations.

## Final notes
The application is optimized for macOS, hence the usage of an AppleScript, but
it also runs on any other system when only the JSON file is used as input.

Â© 2014, 2019 [mhahnFr](https://www.github.com/mhahnFr)
